There are 16 different categories of problems to solve on Rosalind... I think that spending some time in a few key ones would be best for my learning.. and aspiring to eventually do everything (in the case its relevant for progress) would be good after that

The few I am seeing as more fundamental and likely approachable for me at this point are: 
1. 'String Algorithms', 
2. 'Sorting', 
3. 'Probability', 
4. 'Graphs', 
5. 'Dynamic Programming', 
6. 'Combinatorics' 
7. 'Alignment'

Of these options I think that String Algorithms, and Combinatorics interest me most to start.. They are fundamental and likely help with others above them
So maybe I can shoot to do 10 problems in each category, then reasses what would be a wise goal from there.. I think I would like to start with String Algorithms... as upping my string game would be good. 

I think this may be a good time to learn Regex.. as I will likely have many opportunities to apply the skill while processing strings.. 
    1. so I will do some basic regex tutorials first.. 
    2. then see how to use regex in python, 
    3. then I will move onto solving more problems in Rosalind focusing on how to solve with base python.. 
    3.1 then how to solve with regex.. 
    3.2 and I will benchmark both s.t. I can really see if there is a difference in the computational time between base python and regex based solutions. 

    OK for today I am going to call it quits.. much other stuff to do for school. Good sesh. (12-7-2022)

12-11-2022: UPDATING PLANS
- so far using Rosalind is working well to gamify learning python and giving nice clear examples where I can apply specific python functions and abilities.. 
- Rosalind is build to suggest specific problems following other problems, and I think following its suggestions will make for a more interesting and hopefully naturally connected learning experience. SO: I will be recording its suggestions and completing them before getting back onto the more linear paths of completing specific modules completely. 

After completing "Complementing A Strand Of DNA" 6 suggestions were given
1. Rabbits and Recurrence Relations ✔
2. Computing GC Content ✔ 3-4 hrs... whew.. this one was a bitch. 
3. Counting Point Mutations ✔
4. Mendel's First Law ✔ ~50 mins ... def need to brush up on my probability theory.. its a tough subject to feel strong in. 
5. Translating RNA into Protein ✔
6. Finding a Motif in DNA ✔

After completing these I will return to: "Consensus and Profile" in "String Algorithms" 

Problem follow up notes: 
  - for problems which are particularly challenging, or feel conceptually confusing to me, I think it would be good to look at other peoples soultions and to aim to understand the differences in their approach, the tools they used that differed and why my process may have been poorly fit to the problem in the first place. It would also be useful to benchmark other peoples solutions against my to gain some experience benchmarking and understanding who's solution is faster and why. 



WHAT TO DO ABOUT NOVEL FUNCTIONS AND METHODS TO SOLVE OTHERWISE SIMPLE PROBLEMS:
- After doing Counting Point Mutations I noticed that several problems were seriously overengineered, or really simplified one-liners that got the job done in ways whcih I honestly don't understand. Cool to see and a bit bewildering, as despite getting a correct solution I feel like I am not competent compared to the whizzes doing this shit. 
- Truthfully I think its inspiring that there are such stupid ways to complete the problems.. or such brilliant ones as well, overall though, unless I think the simplified solutions are seriously doing something useful that I know I should learn, I will not look into them too deeply. 
- If there is a context appropriate solution or tool I will take adavantage of the resource and attempt to learn the new thing as well as possible before moving on. 

AFTER COMPLETING "Finding a Motif in DNA": 
 NEW SUGGESTED PROBLEMS 
  1. Consensus and Profile ✔ ... took entirely too long.. mostly because I havn't been working on python at all recently. I did a pretty good job overall I think, just need to have dedicated work blocks to avoid taking so long on error prone problems like this one. 
  2. Overlap Graphs
  3. Finding a Shared Motif
  4. Finding a Protein Motif
  5. Open Reading Frames 
  6. Locating Restriction Sites
  7. RNA Splicing 
  8. Calculating Expected Offspring
  9. Independent Alleles
  10. Finding a Protein Motif
  11. Inferring mRNA from Protein
  12. Open Reading Frames
  13. Calculating Protein Mass


